To answer the question of when one usually eats dinner, one must first ponder the question: what does it mean to eat 'dinner'? From the perspective of the average late teenager or early twenty-something who grew up on the mainland of Australia, or indeed, the vast majority of the modern English speaking world, the definition of the term 'dinner' may seem quite trivial indeed. However, the word has a long and remarkable history that illuminates a peculiar quirk with the question posed.
At its most recent etymological pitstop, 'dinner' comes from the Old French term disner, which meant 'to dine'. Ultimately this manifested in modern languages as a noun rather than a verb: it generally refers to the heaviest, primary meal of the day. In the 17th century, Europeans ate 'dinner' at noon, and when they were peckish in the evening, they instead consumed 'supper'. But with the dawn of the Industrial Revolution in the century that followed, work practices and better quality light fixtures meant that this foremost meal was shifted later and later into the day. By the turn of the century it had reached 4:00pm at its most regular, and in 1850 the most common times were 5:00pm and even as late as 6:00pm. The wealthiest in France would still eat supper, albeit at a comparatively later time, preferring to go to bed at around 1:00am. Eating later, such as 8:00pm, was originally considered pretentious, but after centuries of regularity dinner has come to mean the latest of the three daily meals in most regions.
This historical phenomenon begs the question: whatever happened the original notion of a midday 'dinner'? As it turns out, this use of the word has persevered to the modern day, however obscurely. In rural areas of Australia, especially those geographically isolated from larger cities or with ageing populations that result in a cultural difference, 'dinner' continues to mean the midday meal, what most call 'lunch'. The evening meal still exists, of course, but it is instead described as 'tea', hearkening back to the British origin of the word's mealtime usage. Children raised in such areas might spend their entire childhoods without ever picking up on the distinction between the common usage of 'dinner' to describe evening meals and their instinctive usage of 'dinner' as synonymous with 'lunch'. This is one of countless examples of drastic miscommunication that can occur even within the same region and language.
For this reason, I, as someone who originates from rural Tasmania, am semantically obligated to interpret this question as it initially seems to me and respond with the most technically accurate answer: that I tend to eat 'dinner' between 12:00pm and 1:00pm. However, it seems unlikely to me that any given University of Sydney DATA1001 student would use the same unusual definition of 'dinner' as myself, and even then, have the lack of foresight to present it as such in a survey no doubt intended primarily for residents of New South Wales. Given this observation, I must additionally make it clear that I eat what I refer to as 'tea' and most others would call 'dinner' between the hours of 6:00pm and 7:00pm.
